Faez Farhad

  For the final project for CSC212 class my group decided to make a blackjack playable game in c++ using hash tables. We decided to use implementation of hash tables as our data structure because it was convenient with the cards game functions. It was easy to use hash tables because we can have players with a different key and assign the card to them using the value function of hashing. The time complexity for setup function is O(n^3) , the time complexity for sum is O(n),  the time complexity for card distribution is O(n),  time complexity for adding the dealer/players is O(n^2), and the time complexity for the instruct function is O(n^4). The reason we decided to make a blackjack program because we saw that it was easy to make using hash tables and the implementation was already in the book so it was easy to start. We did get stuck mid-way the project because we didn’t know how to connect all the functions together, so we decided to use linked list as well in our data structure so we can connect everything together. This program is worth creating because it is fun to play with and it is accessible for all users. This makes use of a data structure of open address hashing and linked list to perform the task of a simple blackjack game. 

  The advantages of using hash tables over other data structures is that we were able to different functions at the same time for example being able to see the cards each player had based on the amount of players created by the user. We were able to have large number of players playing the game instead of just two players. The key-value pairs are fixed so it saves time when distributing the cards among the players. The disadvantages of using hash tables is that it was more difficult to implement so we had to also add linked list to make a connection among the functions. There can be some errors with the random generator when it is randomly distributing the cards. 

 I collaborated with Eram and Peter and we all split the work among each other to have a working playable game. I was responsible for working with blackjack.cxx file and I added players in the game and assigned them random cards from the card distribution that Peter implemented. I added the instructions for when the user starts the game and for when the user exits the game. Implemented the dealer part of the game which shows which card the dealer has to compare with the players card. Worked with the instruct function to welcome the user to the game with given instructions. I also added the function where when the user is playing the game, it asks the player if he would like to hit or stand. Organized the code to make sure it was clean and user-friendly. Eram implemented the header files and the template files, she also worked with finding the sum of the cards and setting up the table and linked list, also added the destructor. Peter added the cmake files to run the program and added the distribution of cards function, added functions to see the players’ hand, dealers hand and compare the cards. Added the scoreboard and overall functions additions including couts for user-friendly helpers. 
  
 The sources we gathered information from were Data Structures and Other Objects Using C++ book, Google for finding the blackjack game rules and class notes for implementing linked list. Overall, this is a very fun project to create and we all had fun while making the project, it is playable so when I am free. I will definitely be playing the game because I enjoy playing cards game and blackjack is one of them for sure. Although the project works fine for the most part, it sometimes is giving segmentation fault 11 error when running on MAC using Visual Studio, however we tested on Windows multiple times and it isn't giving any errors at all. We believe the error could be because of different OS. Overall, the game is functional and playable. 

